Add how-to guides about primitives (#9716)
Qiskit/qiskit-terra: docs/how_to/use_sampler.rst

Initialize the ``Sampler``
==========================

Then, you need to create a :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` object.

.. testcode::

    from qiskit.primitives import Sampler

    sampler = Sampler()

Run and get results
===================

Now that you have defined ``sampler``, you can create a :class:`~.PrimitiveJob` (subclass of :class:`~qiskit.providers.JobV1`) with the
:meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.run` method and, then, you can get the results (as a :class:`~qiskit.primitives.SamplerResult` object) with
the results with the :meth:`~qiskit.providers.JobV1.result` method.

.. testcode::

    job = sampler.run(qc)
    result = job.result()
    print(result)

.. testoutput::

    SamplerResult(quasi_dists=[{0: 0.4999999999999999, 3: 0.4999999999999999}], metadata=[{}])

Get the probability distribution
--------------------------------

From these results you can take the probability distributions with the attribute :attr:`~qiskit.primitives.SamplerResult.quasi_dists`.

Even though there is only one circuit in this example, :attr:`~qiskit.primitives.SamplerResult.quasi_dists` returns a list of :class:`~qiskit.result.QuasiDistribution`\ s.

> Generally ``result.quasi_dists[i]`` would be the quasi-probability distribution of the ``i``-th circuit.

Reviewer: Can add a note about quasi-probability

.. testcode::

    quasi_dist = result.quasi_dists[0]
    print(quasi_dist)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. testoutput::

    {0: 0.4999999999999999, 3: 0.4999999999999999}

Probability distribution with binary outputs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you prefer to see the outputs as binary strings instead of decimal, you can use the
:meth:`~qiskit.result.QuasiDistribution.binary_probabilities` method.

.. testcode::
    
    print(quasi_dist.binary_probabilities())

.. testoutput::

    {'00': 0.4999999999999999, '11': 0.4999999999999999}

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    result = job.result()
    print(result)

.. testoutput::

    SamplerResult(quasi_dists=[{0: 0.5205078125, 3: 0.4794921875}], metadata=[{'shots': 2048}])

Change :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` options
---------------------------------------------------

If you want to keep some configuration values for several runs, it can be better to
change the :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` options. That way you can use the same 
:class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` object as many times as you wish without having to
rewrite the configuration values every time you use :meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.run`.

Modify existing :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you prefer to change the options of an already-defined :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler`, you can use
:meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.set_options` and introduce the new options as keyword arguments.

.. testcode::

    sampler.set_options(shots=2048, seed=123)

    job = sampler.run(qc)
    result = job.result()
    print(result)

.. testoutput::

    SamplerResult(quasi_dists=[{0: 0.5205078125, 3: 0.4794921875}], metadata=[{'shots': 2048}])

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#####################################################
Compute circuit output probabilities with ``Sampler``
#####################################################

This guide shows how to get the probability distribution of a quantum circuit with the :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` primitive.

.. note::

>     While this guide only uses Qiskit Terra's implementation of the ``Sampler`` primitive, there are other
>     implementations of this primitive like Qiskit Terra's :class:`~qiskit.primitives.BackendSampler`, Qiskit Aer's :class:`~qiskit_aer.primitives.Sampler`
>     and Qiskit Runtime's :class:`~qiskit_ibm_runtime.Sampler`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this guide uses Qiskit’s reference implementation, the ``Sampler`` primitive can be run with any provider using :class:`~qiskit.primitives.BackendSampler` .
```

Reviewer: We are going to add link to the new providers page which will contain a section of providers that have native primitive support and the link will be http://qiskit.org/providers#native_primitives

Reviewer: Put the PR on hold until the providers page is launched, which should be in the next few days.

Initialize quantum circuits
===========================

The first step is to create the :class:`~qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit` from which you want to obtain the probability distribution.

.. plot::
    :include-source:

    from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

    qc = QuantumCircuit(2)
    qc.h(0)
    qc.cx(0,1)
    qc.measure_all()
    qc.draw("mpl")

.. testsetup::

    from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

    qc = QuantumCircuit(2)
    qc.h(0)
    qc.cx(0,1)
    qc.measure_all()

.. note::

    The :class:`~qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit` you pass to :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` has to include measurements.

Initialize the ``Sampler``
==========================

> Then, you need to create a :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, you need to create a :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` instance.
```

Maybe you can explain here `sampler = BackendSampler(backend)` to wrap a backend that does not support it natively. I assume that if a provider implements it natively, you can `from ... import Sampler`.

.. testcode::

    from qiskit.primitives import Sampler

    sampler = Sampler()

Run and get results
===================

> Now that you have defined ``sampler``, you can create a :class:`~.PrimitiveJob` (subclass of :class:`~qiskit.providers.JobV1`) with the
> :meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.run` method and, then, you can get the results (as a :class:`~qiskit.primitives.SamplerResult` object) with
> the results with the :meth:`~qiskit.providers.JobV1.result` method.

Reviewer 3: Same as with the estimator, I don't think that "you can create a job" is obscuring what you are actually doing (which is running the sampler)

```suggestion
Now that you have defined your ``sampler``, you can run it by calling the :meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.run` method, 
which returns an instance of :class:`~.PrimitiveJob` (subclass of :class:`~qiskit.providers.JobV1`). You can get the results from the job (as a :class:`~qiskit.primitives.SamplerResult` object) 
with the :meth:`~qiskit.providers.JobV1.result` method.
```

.. testcode::

    job = sampler.run(qc)
    result = job.result()
    print(result)

.. testoutput::

    SamplerResult(quasi_dists=[{0: 0.4999999999999999, 3: 0.4999999999999999}], metadata=[{}])

Get the probability distribution
--------------------------------

From these results you can take the probability distributions with the attribute :attr:`~qiskit.primitives.SamplerResult.quasi_dists`.

Even though there is only one circuit in this example, :attr:`~qiskit.primitives.SamplerResult.quasi_dists` returns a list of :class:`~qiskit.result.QuasiDistribution`\ s.

> Generally ``result.quasi_dists[i]`` would be the quasi-probability distribution of the ``i``-th circuit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``result.quasi_dists[i]`` is the quasi-probability distribution of the ``i``-th circuit.
```

.. note::

    A quasi-probability distribution differs from a probability distribution in that negative values are also allowed.
    However the quasi-probabilities must sum up to 1 like probabilities.
    Negative quasi-probabilities may appear when using error mitigation techniques.

.. testcode::

    quasi_dist = result.quasi_dists[0]
    print(quasi_dist)

.. testoutput::

    {0: 0.4999999999999999, 3: 0.4999999999999999}

Probability distribution with binary outputs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If you prefer to see the outputs as binary strings instead of decimal, you can use the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you prefer to see the output keys as binary strings instead of decimal numbers, you can use the
```

:meth:`~qiskit.result.QuasiDistribution.binary_probabilities` method.

.. testcode::
    
    print(quasi_dist.binary_probabilities())

.. testoutput::

    {'00': 0.4999999999999999, '11': 0.4999999999999999}

Parameterized circuits with ``Sampler``
=========================================

> The :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` primitive also has the option to include unbound parameterized circuits like the one below.
> You can also bind values to the parameters of the circuit and follow the steps
> of the previous example.

Reviewer 3: Similar comment to the estimator:

```suggestion
The :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` primitive can be run with unbound parameterized circuits like the one below.
You can also manually bind values to the parameters of the circuit and follow the steps
of the previous example.
```

.. testcode::

    from qiskit.circuit import Parameter

    theta = Parameter('θ')
    param_qc = QuantumCircuit(2)
    param_qc.ry(theta, 0)
    param_qc.cx(0,1)
    param_qc.measure_all()
    print(param_qc.draw())

.. testoutput::

            ┌───────┐      ░ ┌─┐   
       q_0: ┤ Ry(θ) ├──■───░─┤M├───
            └───────┘┌─┴─┐ ░ └╥┘┌─┐
       q_1: ─────────┤ X ├─░──╫─┤M├
                     └───┘ ░  ║ └╥┘
    meas: 2/══════════════════╩══╩═
                              0  1 

> The main difference from the previous case is that now you need to include the parameter values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The main difference from the previous case is that now you need to specify the sets of parameter values
```

for which you want to evaluate the expectation value as a ``list`` of ``list``\ s of ``float``\ s.

> The idea is that the ``i``-th element of the bigger ``list`` is the set of parameter values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The idea is that the ``i``-th element of the outer ``list`` is the set of parameter values
```

that corresponds to the ``i``-th circuit.

.. testcode::

    import numpy as np

    parameter_values = [[0], [np.pi/6], [np.pi/2]]

    job = sampler.run([param_qc]*3, parameter_values=parameter_values)
    dists = job.result().quasi_dists

    for i in range(3):
        print(f"Parameter: {parameter_values[i][0]:.5f}\t Probabilities: {dists[i]}")

.. testoutput::

    Parameter: 0.00000	 Probabilities: {0: 1.0}
    Parameter: 0.52360	 Probabilities: {0: 0.9330127018922194, 3: 0.0669872981077807}
    Parameter: 1.57080	 Probabilities: {0: 0.5000000000000001, 3: 0.4999999999999999}

Change run options
==================

> It is also possible that you may want to change any other option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your workflow might require tuning primitive run options, such as shots.
```

> For example, in the previous sections the :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler`
> is :class:`~qiskit.quantum_info.Statevector`-based but it can be changed
> to shot-based by setting a number of ``shots``. For reproducibility purposes, in this
> guide a ``seed`` will also be set.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the reference :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` class performs an exact statevector
calculation based on the :class:`~qiskit.quantum_info.Statevector` class. However, this can be 
modified to include shot noise if the number of ``shots`` is set. 
For reproducibility purposes, a ``seed`` will also be set in the following examples.
```

There are two main ways of doing this:

> * Setting keyword arguments in the :meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.run` method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Set keyword arguments in the :meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.run` method.
```

> #####################################################
> Compute circuit output probabilities with ``Sampler``
> #####################################################

Reviewer 2: ditto https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/pull/9716#discussion_r1189678219
```suggestion
###############################################################
Compute circuit output probabilities with ``Sampler`` primitive
###############################################################
```

This guide shows how to get the probability distribution of a quantum circuit with the :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` primitive.

.. note::

    While this guide uses Qiskit’s reference implementation, the ``Sampler`` primitive can be run with any provider using :class:`~qiskit.primitives.BackendSampler`.
    
    .. code-block::

        from qiskit.primitives import BackendSampler

>         from qiskit_provider import QiskitProvider

Reviewer 2: ditto https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/pull/9716#discussion_r1189680518

Author: Done in [3ee6158](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/pull/9716/commits/3ee61586908b0c6728b06d93d8c90d27c8431fe9)

        provider = QiskitProvider()
        backend = provider.get_backend('backend_name')
        sampler = BackendSampler(backend)

    There are some providers that implement primitives natively (see `this page <http://qiskit.org/providers/#primitives>`_ for more details).

Initialize quantum circuits
===========================

The first step is to create the :class:`~qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit` from which you want to obtain the probability distribution.

.. plot::
    :include-source:

    from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

    qc = QuantumCircuit(2)
    qc.h(0)
    qc.cx(0,1)
    qc.measure_all()
    qc.draw("mpl")

> .. testsetup::

Reviewer 2: ditto https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/pull/9716/files#r1153023515 ?

Author: Fixed in [36d54f3](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/pull/9716/commits/36d54f3a625d12fbec8c9c03c4cc93005ff22be2)

Even though there is only one circuit in this example, :attr:`~qiskit.primitives.SamplerResult.quasi_dists` returns a list of :class:`~qiskit.result.QuasiDistribution`\ s.
``result.quasi_dists[i]`` is the quasi-probability distribution of the ``i``-th circuit.

.. note::

    A quasi-probability distribution differs from a probability distribution in that negative values are also allowed.
    However the quasi-probabilities must sum up to 1 like probabilities.
    Negative quasi-probabilities may appear when using error mitigation techniques.

.. testcode::

    quasi_dist = result.quasi_dists[0]
    print(quasi_dist)

.. testoutput::

    {0: 0.4999999999999999, 3: 0.4999999999999999}

Probability distribution with binary outputs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you prefer to see the output keys as binary strings instead of decimal numbers, you can use the
:meth:`~qiskit.result.QuasiDistribution.binary_probabilities` method.

.. testcode::
    
    print(quasi_dist.binary_probabilities())

.. testoutput::

    {'00': 0.4999999999999999, '11': 0.4999999999999999}

> Parameterized circuits with ``Sampler``

Author: So you think it's better that for the first example I leave everything in singular and then use the parameterized example to explain multiple circuits (and observables in the case of `Estimator`)?

> Parameterized circuits with ``Sampler``

Author: I was thinking about stating explicitly that while the current example only includes one circuit you can also pass a list of circuits

> Parameterized circuits with ``Sampler``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Parameterized circuit with ``Sampler``
```

> Parameterized circuits with ``Sampler``

Reviewer 2: Solved by 973f1e0e18

By default, the reference :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` class performs an exact statevector
calculation based on the :class:`~qiskit.quantum_info.Statevector` class. However, this can be 
modified to include shot noise if the number of ``shots`` is set. 
For reproducibility purposes, a ``seed`` will also be set in the following examples.

There are two main ways of setting options in the :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler`:

* Set keyword arguments in the :meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.run` method.
* Modify :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` options.

Set keyword arguments for :meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.run`
----------------------------------------------------------------

If you only want to change the settings for a specific run, it can be more convenient to
set the options inside the :meth:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler.run` method. You can do this by
passing them as keyword arguments.

.. testcode::

    job = sampler.run(qc, shots=2048, seed=123)
    result = job.result()
    print(result)

.. testoutput::

    SamplerResult(quasi_dists=[{0: 0.5205078125, 3: 0.4794921875}], metadata=[{'shots': 2048}])

> Change :class:`~qiskit.primitives.Sampler` options

Reviewer 2: Similar to https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/pull/9716#discussion_r1189704507

Author: Done in [254c8de](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/pull/9716/commits/254c8de822ab329082b7efd78b57377c74d2c495)
